You've learned the sales process.
You've practiced calls.
You know the tools. Now we need to talk
about how we know if any of that is actually
working. Because in this business, feelings
don't close deals.
Numbers do.
You can feel like you had a productive day.
Feel like you're making progress.
Feel like things are going well.
And still be falling behind.
That happens all the time.
The people who improve fastest are the ones
who actually look at their numbers, figure
out where the gaps are, and fix them.
Everyone else just guesses and hopes.
KPI stands for Key Performance Indicator.
These are the numbers that tell you and your
manager whether you're on track or not.
Think of them like the dashboard in your
car.
You don't need to be a mechanic to know that
if your fuel gauge is on empty, you've got
a problem. KPIs work the same way.
One glance and you know where you're strong
and where something needs fixing.
The biggest mistake people make when they
start is flying blind.
Making calls all day, staying busy, feeling
productive, but never actually checking
whether any of it is converting.
Being busy and being productive are two
completely different things.
And KPIs are what separates them.
We track six metrics and we track them from
left to right.
That means we follow the lead from the moment
it enters the pipeline all the way to a
signed contract.
Each metric feeds into the next.
And when something breaks, you can trace it
back to exactly where it broke.
The first metric is dial count.
This is the total number of outbound calls
you make in a day.
It's one of the clearest measures of
outbound effort.
You can't control whether someone picks up,
you can't control whether they want to sell,
but you can control whether you keep working
the list with real effort and consistency.
Now here's something worth explaining.
We do not hold people to a strict dial count
as the goal by itself.
If someone is chasing a number late in the
day, they can start speed dialing through
their list just to make the count look
right.
No real conversations, no quality, just
tapping the phone as fast as possible.
That's completely useless.
So we track dial count as a leading
indicator of effort, but it is not the
goal. It tells us whether someone is putting
in the work, but the work itself has to be
real.
The second metric is connection rate.
Out of all those dials, how many people
actually picked up?
This one tells you about list quality and
whether your phone number is getting flagged
as spam.
If your connection rate drops below the normal
range for your role in market, something
is wrong. Your number might be getting marked
as spam, the list might be stale, or you
might be calling at bad times.
If you see that happening, flag it to your
manager right away.
The third metric is quality conversations.
Out of the people who picked up, how many of
them genuinely want to sell?
This doesn't mean they'll accept our price.
It means they have a property and they're
interested in hearing an offer.
A quality conversation filters out wrong
numbers.
People who say, take me off your list, and
people who have zero interest in selling.
If that number is low, it usually means the
list is off, your opening isn't connecting,
or you're calling into a market where the
leads aren't matched to what we do.
The fourth metric is process calls.
Out of those quality conversations, how many
went all the way through your qualification
and discovery process?
This means you ran the full fact find,
confirmed they qualify for our offer, gathered
all the information needed to move forward.
If your quality conversations are high, but
your process calls are low, you're probably
disqualifying people too fast, not handling
objections well enough, or not going deep
enough in your discovery conversations.
That's a coaching moment, and it usually
shows up clearly in call recordings.
The fifth metric is offers made.
How many official offers went out from the
acquisition team?
This is primarily tracked on their side, but
it reflects the quality of leads you're
handing off.
If the acquisition team is having lots of
conversations but making very few offers, the
leads coming across might not be as
qualified as they looked on paper.
That's worth looking into.
The sixth metric is contracts signed.
This is the one everyone cares about.
How many offers turned into signed
contracts?
If that conversion is weaker than expected,
something in the negotiation or pricing
process needs attention.
The reason we track left to right is that
when something is off, you can pinpoint
exactly where the breakdown is happening.
Low dials? That's an effort problem.
Good dials but low connections?
Check the phone number and list quality.
Good connections but few quality
conversations?
The audience is wrong or the opening needs
work.
Good conversations but few process calls?
Discovery is weak or you're disqualifying
too fast.
Good process calls but few offers?
The handoff might be incomplete.
Good offers but few contracts?
Something's off in the negotiation.
Each step narrows the funnel.
Your job is to keep the funnel as healthy as
possible at the stages you control, which
is everything from dials through handoff.
The question is always, where's the gap and
what do we do about it?
If your dials are low, is it an effort issue
or are you spending too long on individual
calls and running out of time?
If your conversations aren't converting, do
we need to pull up your recordings and
listen together?
If your process calls are dropping, are you
disqualifying people too aggressively based
on the first thing they say?
That's the whole point of tracking.
Not to micromanage, not to punish, to find
the gaps and close them.
The people who embrace their numbers instead
of avoiding them are the ones who improve
the fastest.
So know your numbers. Look at them every
day.
And when something looks off, don't ignore
it.
You've got the numbers down.
Next up, we'll talk about exactly how your
work translates into what you take home.
The offer letter you'll sign is where that
gets spelled out.